CI/CD 10th January

	Q) What is CI?
	Q) What are difference stages in CI and CD?
	Q) What are advantages of CI and CD?
	Q) What is the difference between Continuous Delivery and continuous Deployment?
	Q) In CI for each stage1 checkout which tool is used and how to integrate?
	Q) In Continuous Integration what is meant by Continuous?
	Q) In Poll SCM how Jenkins know if there any new changes in GIT?
	Q) Different Deployment types and what is Blue Green Deployment?
	Q) How is continuous integration achieved using Jenkins?
	Delivery has manual approval process
	Deployment does not required manual approval

Prevent integration problems
Integration bugs are detected early and are easy to track down due to small change sets. …
Avoids last-minute chaos at release dates, when everyone tries to check in their slightly …
Committing code frequently


The mechanism is it takes latest commit id and compare the local commit id, Jenkins locally stores the commit id, so it compares the local commit id from Jenkins to Git latest commit id.

__________________________________________________________________________

Jenkins 11th January

	Q) What is Jenkins and pipeline?
	Q) What are the features of Jenkins?
	Q) What are Different Pipeline jobs?
	Q) Can we run/install 2 Jenkins server in single OS, if it is possible then how?
	Q) What is the difference between declarative and scripted pipeline? what are agents?
	Q) Jenkins and Tomcat are installed on the same server how you will manage?
	Q) Can you explain Jenkins job configuration? features of downstream project?
	Q) How we can secure the Jenkins job and what are the plugin to secure?
	Q) If forget Jenkins password how you will login into Jenkins?
	Q) If you want to trigger builds and PR is raised how build should trigger automatically?

Jenkins 12th January - continuation 
Jenkins shared library? 
https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/shared-libraries/

DSL Jekins ? 
https://plugins.jenkins.io/job-dsl/

How to hide password or API keys? either with credentials manager or Credentials plug-in
Any plug-in for Keys? -->Credentials plug-in

Multibranch pipeline ?

How to provide access to user level permission?
Role based access to User. (RBAC)

what is Jenkins Security realm?
https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/security/managing-security/

What is pre-requisite before install Jenkins?
https://toolsqa.com/jenkins/install-jenkins/
https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/installing/

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GIT and GitHub -- 17th January 2022

	Q) What is Git and GitHub?
	Q) What is the difference between Git and GitHub?
	Q) How to update Last commit message ? Using amend command
	Q) How to verify the repository link from local
	Q) Branching strategy?
	Q) How to switch branches in between work?
	Q) What is sub git and why it is used?
	Q) What is staging area or indexing area?
	Q) What is git stash drop and why it is using?
	Q) The git stash drop command is used to delete a stash from the queue.
	Q) Explain about Git rebase and Git merge?

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Maven -- 18th January 2022

	Q) Explain what is Maven? How does it work? What is architecture?
Maven is a project management tool. It provides the developer a complete build lifecycle framework. On executing Maven commands, it will look for POM file in Maven; it will run the command on the resources described in the POM.

	Q) What is Maven life cycle?
	Q) What is POM, what are the elements used inside POM ->Project Object Model
	Q) What are the commands to package project?
	Q) What are different phases of build life cycle?
            Validate, compile, test, package, verify, Install, and deploy

	Q) What are the different maven repository? 
	 Local, central and remote.
	
	Q) Where is Maven local repo located?
	Q) List out the dependency scope in Maven?/Explain dependency in Maven?
           The various dependency scope used in Maven are:
	Compile: It is the default scope, and it indicates what dependency is available in the class path of the project
	Provided: It indicates that the dependency is provided by JDK or web server or container at runtime
	Runtime: This tells that the dependency is not needed for compilation but is required during execution
	Test: It says dependency is available only for the test compilation and execution phases
	System: It indicates you have to provide the system path
	Import: This indicates that the identified or specified POM should be replaced with the dependencies in that POM’s section

	Q) What are different plug-in Maven?
2 types of plug-in - Build plugins and Reporting plugins
Build plugins -->They execute during the build process and should be configured in the <build/> element of pom.xml.
Reporting plugins -->They execute during the site generation process and they should be configured in the <reporting/> element of the pom.xml.

	Q) Different Clean life cycle in Maven?
Maven invokes the clean lifecycle consisting of the following phases. 1. pre-clean 2. clean 3. post-clean Maven clean goal (clean:clean) 

	Q) What is command for Maven compile? What is use of mvn clean?
Cleans up target after the build. Deletes the target directory.


	Q) What is Build profile in Maven?
A Build profile is a set of configuration values, which can be used to set or override default values of Maven build. Using a build profile, you can customize build for different environments such as Production v/s Development environments.
Profiles are specified in pom.xml file using its activeProfiles/profiles elements and are triggered in variety of ways. 
Different Maven profiles -->Per Project, Per User, Global

	Q) Explain how you can exclude dependency?
By using the exclusion element, dependency can be excluded?
What is transitive dependency in Maven?
Transitive decency means A depends B and B depends on C, so in this case A to C dependency called Transitive dependency.

	Q) What is use of settings.xml?

	Q) Usages of Maven plugin?
Maven plugins are used to
	Create a jar file
	Create war file
	Compile code files
	Unit testing of code
	Documenting projects
	Reporting
	Q) Where decencies are store in maven?
./m2 folder

	Q) Is maven is sequential? If yes define sequentially?

	Q) Why maven takes much time for 1st execution and from 2nd execution it will take less time?
First it will download all the dependencies and place it in /.m2 folder , and 2nd time onwards all the dependencies will be downloaded for the first and are stored locally /.m2 , so no need to down load second time  that is the reason it will take less time for execute for 2 time.
	Q) What is Archetype and why we will use this in Maven?
Archetype is maven plug-in. Archetype will help authors create Maven project templates for users, and provides users with the means to generate parameterized versions of those project templates. Using archetypes provides a great way to enable developers quickly in a way consistent with best practices employed by your project or organization

Maven - Build Profiles (tutorialspoint.com)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Docker -- 19th January 2022

	Q) Explain Docker Architecture?
	Docker Architecture consists of a Docker Engine which is a client-server application with three major components:
		a. A server which is a type of long-running program called a daemon process (the docker command).
		b. A REST API which specifies interfaces that programs can use to talk to the daemon and instruct it what to do.
		c. A command line interface (CLI) client (the docker command).
		d. The CLI uses the Docker REST API to control or interact with the Docker daemon through scripting or direct CLI commands. Many other Docker applications use the underlying API and CLI.
	Q) What is Docker?
	Docker is a containerization platform which packages your application and all its dependencies together in the form of containers so as to ensure that your application works seamlessly in any environment, be it development, test or production. Docker containers, wrap a piece of software in a complete filesystem that contains everything needed to run: code, runtime, system tools, system libraries, etc. It wraps basically anything that can be installed on a server. This guarantees that the software will always run the same, regardless of its environment.

	Q) What is difference between Docker and VM?
	Q) Advantages of Docker?
	major advantage of using Docker.
		○ Offers an efficient and easy initial set up
		○ Allows you to describe your application lifecycle in detail
		○ Simple configuration and interacts with Docker Compose.
		○ Documentation provides every bit of information.
	Q) What is lifecycle of Docker container?
	This is one of the most popular questions asked in Docker interviews. Docker containers have the following lifecycle:
		○ Create a container
		○ Run the container
		○ Pause the container(optional)
		○ Un-pause the container(optional)
		○ Start the container
		○ Stop the container
		○ Restart the container
		○ Kill the container
		○ Destroy the container
	Q) 5 Docker Basic commands? purpose of the commands?
	Q) What is docker compose and what are features of docker compose?
	Multi container purpose
	Q) Explain about Dockerfile?
	Q) Difference between COPY and ADD commands?
	Q) Difference between CMD and ENTRYPOINT commands?
	Q) Advantages /uses of CMD and ENTRYPOINT?
	Q) What is difference between Docker image and Layers?
	Q) What are the steps for the Docker container life cycle? -->Build, pull, Run
	Q) Explain various Docker component?
	Q) Can docker container restart by itself?
	If you're application is able to detect issues, you can easily have the container restart itself. The two important things are the --restart flag and that the application exists when it detects an issue. With the restart policy, you control what Docker does when the command exists.
	Q) Docker network?
	Default, Bridge,
	Q) Can we lose data inside container?
	No,  When stop we do not lose data, but when we delete the container, we lose data.
	Q) What is docker prune and how it is used?
	For Deleting stopped containers, dangling images and unused networks.
	Q) Command to build the dockerfile? How to push the image to docker hub?
	Q) Different kinds of mount types in Docker?
	 There are 3 types of mounts which you can use in your Docker container viz. Volumes, Bind mount and tmpfs mounts.
	Q) Difference between docker stop and docker kill?
	

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Jira -- 20th January 2022

	Q)  What is JIRA and Its workflow?

JIRA is an issue tracking product or a software tool developed by Atlassian, commonly used for bug tracking, project management, and issue tracking; it is entirely based on these three aspects. It is widely used in software development and software testing.

Workflow is defined as a movement of the bug/issue through various stages during its life-cycle
Created/Open
WIP ( Work In Progress)
Completed/Closed

	Q) Why we use JIRA software?
The reason behind using JIRA is

Upfront and fair licensing policy
Features that is not available elsewhere
Get the latest update on the progress of projects
It runs anywhere and recognized with many famous companies
Easily extensible and customizable

	Q) What are agile methodologies supported by Jira?
          Scrum and Kanban

Q) What is labeling in Jira?

	Q) What's are source control tools integrate to Jira?
            Github, Bitbucket

	Q) What are the issue types available in JIRA?
             Story, Task, bug, Epic.

	Q) What is Jira Backlog?

	Q)  What do you mean by Scheduling an issue?
            Scheduling the issue means scheduling the work of issue for a particular ‘due date’.
            For this function to work, one must have ‘Schedule issue permission’ by JIRA Administrator. In this case, a field with
            ‘Due Date’ is being populated.

	Q)  How is a sub-task created in JIRA?

	Sub-task is the way of splitting up of parent issue into a number of small tasks which are tracked and worked on separately.
	
	The parent issue contains the information of all its sub-tasks which can be only of the same project. A parent issue cannot be closed unless and until all its sub-tasks are closed. A sub-task has the same fields as that of any standard-issue but their issue types are different.

	Q)  Watch list in Jira?

	Q) Explain task and sub-task default template?

	Q) What is sprint in Jira?

	Q) Name the types of reports generated in JIRA?
	JIRA offer reports that show statistics for projects, versions, people or other fields within issues.  Various reports included with JIRA are
	
	Average Age Report
	Pie Chart Report
	Resolution Time Report
	Recently Created Issues Report
	Resolved vs. Created Issues Report
	Single Level Group by Report
	Time Tracking Report
	User Workload Report
	Workload Pie Chart Report, etc.

	Q) Explain the three color indicators and their significance.

	For any particular issue in JIRA, 3 colors like Blue, Green, and Orange is used to denote the amount of time spent on any particular issue. This information is displayed under ‘Time Tracking’ section. Each color has its own significance like;
	
	Blue: This color is to denote the ‘Original Estimate’ i.e. the time estimate to be invested in resolving the issue. This field has been labeled as ‘Estimated’.
	Orange: This color determines the time left for resolving the issue. This field has been labeled as ‘Remaining’.
	Green: This color defines the actual time that has been used or say spent in resolving the issue so far. This field has been labeled as ‘logged’.

	Q) What is Audit log in Jira?
	 The audit log is intended to record configuration changes that can impact users and projects. You can't sort the audit log

	Q) How to add new fields in Jira?
	 Jira Admins can add an existing field or create a custom field while in View Issue with the Admin > Add field option. You can even configure the options for that custom field without having to leave the screens you are presented with. Adding a field using the Add Custom Field button Choose Administration () > Issues.

	Q) How to modify bulk issues in Jira?
	Click the Bulk actions menu > Bulk change in Jira. The bulk change operation window in Jira will open in a new tab.
	Q) How to create user in Jira? And how to assign dashboard?
		○ Select > User Management.
		○ In the User browser, click Create User.
		○ Enter the Username , Password , Full Name and Email address.
		○ Optionally, select the Send Notification Email checkbox to send the user an email containing: their login name. ...
		○ If you have more than one Jira application installed, you will need to select the Jira application you would like to give the user access to
	Q) How many stages in Kanban and scrum board?
	
	Q) I have subtask Open, WIP, Close. In the work flow I have to add in between is 'some stage' how to add?

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ansible-- 21st January 2022

	Q) Why we are using Ansible?
	Q) What are different modules in Ansible?
	Q) What is the use of Inventory file?
 These are the lists of nodes or hosts containing their databases, servers, IP addresses, etc. 
	Q) What are pre-requisite to Ansible playbook? How to Install Ansible?
	Q) What are adhoc commands in Ansible?
	Q) Host file path on Ansible?
	Q) What is Ansible tower?
	Ansible is classified as a web-based solution which makes Ansible very easy to use. It is considered to be or acts like a hub for all of your automation tasks. The tower is free for usage till 10 nodes.
	Q) What is ansible.cfg file? Where it present in Ansible?
	Present under /etc/ansible, we can define certain settings, like where is host file, which user all the details can be given.
	Q) What is the use of Ansible galaxy?
	Ansible Galaxy refers to the website Galaxy where the users will be able to share all the roles to a CLI ( Command Line Interface) where the installation, creation, and managing of roles happen
	Q) What is handler in ansible? Why it is used?
	In Ansible, handlers are just like normal tasks in a playbook but run when tasks include the notify directive and also indicate that it changed something. It runs only once after all the tasks executed in a particular play. It automatically loads through roles/<role_name>/handlers/main.yaml. 
	They are used to trigger the status of a service, such as restarting or stopping a service.
	Q) When I need detailed logs on executing ansible playbook what option i need to use?
	ansible-playbook -i hosts copy.yml --> will give minimal information.
	ansible-playbook -i hosts copy.yml -vvv --> will give details information.
	Q) What is Ansible Inventory and what are it types?
	An inventory is an initialization file that has details about the different servers that you are managing.
	In Ansible, there are two types of inventory files, static and dynamic.
		• Static inventory: Static inventory file is a list of managed hosts declared under a host group using either hostnames or IP addresses in a plain text file. The managed host entries are listed below the group name in each line.
		• Dynamic inventory: Dynamic inventory is generated by a script written in Python or any other programming language or, preferably, by using plug-ins. In a cloud set-up, static inventory file configuration will fail since IP addresses change once a virtual server is stopped and started again.
	
	Q) What are the feature of Ansible tower?
	Features of the Ansible Tower are:
	Ansible Dashboard
	Real-time job status updates
	Multi-playbook workflows
	Who Ran What Job When
	Scale capacity with tower clusters
	Integrated notifications
	Schedule ansible jobs
	Manage and track inventory
	Remote command execution
	REST API & Tower CLI Tool 
	Q) What is an Ansible vault?
	Ansible vault is used to keep sensitive data, such as passwords, instead of placing it as plain text in playbooks or roles. Any structured data file or single value inside a YAML file can be encrypted by Ansible.
	To encrypt the data:
	
	Command: ansible-vault encrypt foo.yml bar.yml baz.yml
	
	To decrypt the data:
	Command: ansible-vault decrypt foo.yml bar.yml baz.yml
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Kubernetes 24th January 2022

	Q) What is Kubernetes architecture of Master node.
	Q) What are different Services?
	Q) Components are Worker nodes
	Q) What do you understand by etcd?
	Kubernetes uses etcd as a distributed key-value store for all of its data, including metadata and configuration data, and allows nodes in Kubernetes clusters to read and write data. Although etcd was purposely built for CoreOS, it also works on a variety of operating systems (e.g., Linux, BSB, and OS X) because it is open-source. Etcd represents the state of a cluster at a specific moment in time and is a canonical hub for state management and cluster coordination of a Kubernetes cluster.
	
	Q) What is ingress network and how it will work?
	Q) What are different types of multi containers in Kubernetes?
	Q) What is role kube api server and kube schedular.
	Q) Main difference between Docker Swarm and Kubernetes?
	
	Q) What is Headless service?
	A headless service is used to interface with service discovery mechanisms without being tied to a ClusterIP, therefore allowing you to directly reach pods without having to access them through a proxy. It is useful when neither load balancing nor a single Service IP is required.
	Q) Explain about Kube control manager?

Udemy Questions
	Q) What is the primary feature of Kubernetes?
Container orchestration.
	Q) Which flags allow you to specify which Namespace you want to interact with when using kubectl?
--namespace
	Q) Which Kubernetes component manages containers on an individual node? 
kubelet - The kubelet is the agent that manages containers on each node.
	Q) What does the 8 in k8s stand for?
The 8 stands for the 8 letters between K and S.
	Q) What is a Namespace?
Namespaces are virtual clusters running on the same physical cluster.
	Q)  What is the Kubernetes control plane?
The control plane consists of multiple components that manage the cluster itself.
	Q) Which tool allow you to create Kubernetes clusters?
kubeadm allows you to build Kubernetes clusters.
	Q) Which command allows you to upgrade control plane components?
kubeadm upgrade apply
	Q)  How can you make Kubernetes highly available?
Have mutiple control plane nodes. An HA setup for Kubernetes involved multiple control plane nodes.
	Q)  Which command is used to remove containers from a Node so that the Node can be taken down for maintenance?
kubectl drain. 
kubectl drain is used to take a Node down for maintenance
	Q) Which tool can help you perform a Kubernetes upgrade?
kubeadm.
kubeadm includes functionality to help you upgrade Kubernetes clusters.
	Q) What software does Kubernetes use to store data about the state of the cluster?
Etcd.
Etcd is the Backend data store or Kubernetes.
	Q) What command can you use to allow Pods to be scheduled on a previously-drained node after Node maintenance is complete?
kubectl uncordon. 
This command will allow Pods to be scheduled on a previously-drained Node.
	Q)  Which of the following are options for a highly available Etcd architecture?
External Etcd.
External etcd, or managing Etcd separately from other control plane components, is one option for an HA setup.
	Q) Which tool provides a command-line interface for Kubernetes?
kubectl
kubectl provides a command-line interface to the Kubernetes API.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AWS 27th January 2022

	Q) What are PaaS services in Cloud? What is difference between PaaS and SaaS?
	Q) What are basic services required to set up as EC2?
	Q) What is the use of CloudWatch?
	Q) Can you brief about S3 service in AWS?
	Q) What is AMI?
	Q) What is the region and availability zone?
	Q) What is difference between scalability and flexibility in AWS?
	Scalability: The ability of any scheme to intensify the tasks on its hardware resources to hold the inconsistency in command is called as scalability. 
	Flexibility: The aptitude of a schema that augments the task on the hardware property is known as flexibility.
	Q) What is EBS in AWS?
	Q) What is difference between EBS and EFS?
	Q) What are AWS service that are not region specific?
	IAM, S3, Route 53.
	Q) How to detach EC2 from Auto scaling?
	Q) What is Route 53 in AWS?
	Q) What is difference between Security group and NACL?
	Q) What is VPC, what re different components in VPC?
	Subnet, Internet Gateway, NAT Gateway, HW VPN Connection, Virtual Private Gateway, Customer Gateway, Router, Peering Connection, VPC Endpoint for S3, Egress-only Internet Gateway.
	Q) What is difference between sys and ops?
	Q) What is dynamo DB in AWS?
	Its No SQL DB, With DynamoDB, you can create database tables that can store and retrieve any amount of data and serve any level of request traffic. You can scale up or scale down your tables' throughput capacity without downtime or performance degradation. You can use the AWS Management Console to monitor resource utilization and performance metrics.
	Q) What are the different types of Instances?
	Q) What are different types of Load balancer?
	Q) What is the difference between role and policy?
	Q) What is EKS Cluster?
	Q) 2/2 checked means?
	Q) How to access S3 bucket from EC2 instance?
	Grant an EC2 instance access to an S3 bucket (amazon.com)
	Q) What is snowball?
	To Transfer large amount of data.
	Q) Inbound and outbound rules?
	Q) What are the Store classes in S3?
		• S3 Standard, 
		• S3 Intelligent-tier.
		• S3 Standard-IA.
		• S3 One Zone-IA.
S3 Glacier